# encoding-terminal
This program can encode messages in various different methods. 

**I was inspired by the oldest known cipher, the Caesar cipher, used as a form of military communications by the Ancient Romans.** The encoding method is called a "substitution cipher", where each plaintext character is replaced with ciphertext. Julius Caesar's army would shift the alphabet, assigning a to b, b to c, et cetra. This simple shift would make message seem meaningless and incoherent if intercepted, but explicit in the right hands. Such a simple code standing for hundreds of years as the gold standard of military technology confounded me. I knew that I had to take a dive into the history of cryptography. 

### A History of Crytography:
The antithesis to a substitution cipher like the Caesar cipher is frequency analysis. Iraqi philosopher, mathematician, physician, and music theorist al-Kindi is credited with discovering this method of cryptanalysis. Living in the seventh century, it is justified to call him one of the fathers of cryptography. Al-Kindi observed that some letters appear more frequent in language than others. If the characters of a plaintext are merely being replaced in the ciphertext, we should still be able to observe the frequency of characters to decode the message hidden within. For example, in English, the most common character is "e". If we have a large enough sample of ciphertext, we could simply deduce that the most common character is likely e, followed by t, and so on. Futhermore, certain letter combinations are more common than others. "t" is most likely to be followed by "h", "e" and "r" are often seen together, and "ss", "ee", "tt", and "ff" are the most common repeats. The caveat to frequency analysis is that a large sample of ciphertext is needed, which isn't always available. Nevertheless, this discovery rendered the Caesar cipher effectively cracked.
While the Ancient Romans cipher may be a useless fact today, it stands to show us how potent even the most elementary of encryptions can thrive for hundreds of years as a unsolvable mystery. There are still many pastures to discover, codes to be cracked, and boundaries to be broken.
